---
layout: default
title: MELT Evaluation Client
parent: Matcher Evaluation
nav_order: 6
permalink: /matcher-evaluation/client
---

# MELT Evaluation Client

If you have one or more packaged matching systems ([SEALS](https://dwslab.github.io/melt/matcher-packaging/seals), [Docker Web](https://dwslab.github.io/melt/matcher-packaging/web#melt-web-packaging)) or simply a URL pointing to a matching service and want to evaluate those, you can [write a Java program to evaluate those](https://dwslab.github.io/melt/matcher-evaluation#more-complex-evaluation-example).

Alternatively, you can use the **MELT Evaluation Client** which is discussed in this section. The client is a simple java command line tool that is executed in a terminal and does not require any coding skills or deep understanding of MELT, SEALS, or the Docker Web format. The client requires as input IDs of the available [built-in tracks](https://dwslab.github.io/melt/track-repository). Alternatively, [local tracks/ontologies](https://dwslab.github.io/melt/matcher-evaluation/client#evaluating-a-local-test-case) can alo be given as input.


You can download the [latest version of the command line tool on GitHub](https://nightly.link/dwslab/melt/workflows/java_client_upload/master/evaluation-client.zip).


## Using the Command Line Tool
The most straight forward way to use the tool is as follows:
```bash
java -jar matching-eval-client-latest.jar --systems <system-1-path> <system-2-path> <...> --track <location-URI> <collection-name> <version>
```
The results will be printed on the command line.

**Help/Documentation**
```bash
java -jar matching-eval-client-latest.jar --help
```

**Types of Systems**

The evaluation client will automatically detect the following types of matchers:
1. Web package (docker file) - automatically detected by path ending with `.tar.gz`
1. SEALS package - automatically detected by path ending with `.zip`
1. Web package (URL) - in all other cases an URL is assumed

### Advanced Features

#### Java 8
Evaluating SEALS packages requires Java 8. If you do not use Java 8 as your default java runtime, you can specify the Java 8 location using parameter `--java8 <path to Java 8>`.

#### Serializing Alignments and Details
If you want to access the system alignments and/or have a more detailed evaluation report, you can specify an output directory via `--results`. The reports are generated by the `EvaluatorCSV` and you can find an [explanation of the generated file structure in the corresponding section](https://dwslab.github.io/melt/matcher-evaluation/evaluators#evaluatorcsv) of the user guide.

#### Evaluating a Local Test Case
If you have a local test case (i.e. two ontologies and a reference alignment) on disk that you want to evaluate, you can use option `--local-testcase <onto1-path> <onto2-path> <reference-path>` instead of the `--track` option. 

#### Evaluating a Local Track
If you have multiple local test cases that you want to evaluate simultaneously (micro/macro precision etc.), you can create a local track. Create a folder structure as described in the [local track section](https://dwslab.github.io/melt/matcher-evaluation/local-track#evaluation-of-a-local-track) of the user guide and use the `--local-track <folder> <name> <version>` option where `name` and `version` can be freely set.


